welcome back to studio five this week
your family will gather to give thanks
but how can you make the day about more
than just the meal designer Christine
McKay has activities both kids and
adults will ever getting it more of the
concepts of the day not just focusing on
the food absolutely this year I decided
to go beyond the meal and and really
start some new family traditions and so
one of the traditions I decided to start
this year is make the kids table a fun
table make that the hot spot it's a fun
zone I always got so I know so annoyed
when I got stuck at the kids table so we
decided to try to make it kind of fun
okay so I themed it really loosely upon
the book and the giving tree by shel
silverstein
I love it I love this book because it's
based on giving rather than receiving
and so what I did is a sad little tree
in the middle kind of represents the
giving tree that gives his leaves leaves
and his branches and his fruit that's on
the giving tree there's a leaf for each
child and what they can do is they can
take a leaf and on the back they can
write what is something that they can
give because everybody has something to
give and sometimes it really is better
to give rather than receive and so
that's gonna kind of be the loose theme
around Anouk doubles as the centerpiece
doubles as a centerpiece and then what I
did for the plates is I decided to make
them custom plates and I've done stuff
similar to this before they're just
basic glass plates and then I just cut
out a circle of a scrapbook paper and
put their names on it and then paste it
it to the bottom and it will just come
off with like hot water in in the sink
so it comes off really easily and each
plate has their name on it so they
really feel special and that's so easy
to do I mean in minutes you can have a
customized glass plate I always tell
people have them on hand because you can
switch them out for all different
holidays and do fun and doesn't ruin
your plate it doesn't ruin your plate
okay it's off with hot water and so the
next thing is I love these we love we
love crafts in our house and so this is
all this is is a Styrofoam ball though
just like some decoupage is some brown
tissue paper and just wrapped it around
if you have little ones you might want
to do that ahead of time unless you are
glue all over your kitchen but then the
little ones can cut out the little faces
and put in the crayons for the feathers
all of the templates and the faces are
available for download on KEK designs
calm it then and when they're done they
can just put it at their little plate
look how cute it just adds a little a
little touch to to each plate and then
along with that there's also printable
activity books that they can use their
crayons on and these are free download
these are free downloads and let me just
grab this one real quick there's just
all sorts of coloring pages and
activities and word searches and there's
little pages that have places that they
can draw what they're thankful for
really fun you can download that you can
download the front of the cute little
turkey crayon holder and have those on
hand year after year totally love that
alright the kids table came together in
minutes and fun activities to keep
entertained as well but more than just
eating to give the concept the adult
table similar theme you'd come up some
great activities that even adults can
branch beyond the vision one of the
things that that I thought would be kind
of fun is to do like a little guessing
game and have vintage photos just all
over so I mean put it on your your wine
bottle or there's just little picture
frames or even just hidden under the
plates I've just different people in the
family and each family member will have
a piece of paper that has numbers on it
and they can try to guess who the family
members are and it's a great way to get
to know your ancestors I love that this
year I decided you know I'm not gonna
focus on the table feet and the
centerpiece wife's went to rod works I
had them pick all that out for me so I
could focus on the games and the
centerpieces and for the place cards I
decided for them to have a purpose
instead of just a little card that sits
at the plate mm-hmm these are this
little decorative tins they come in a
pack of six for a couple dollars they're
just storage tins you can get any craft
store and inside it has little circles
that say I am thankful for because and
each though there will be a little
circle for each person at the dinner so
throughout the day you can fill out I am
thankful for Brooke because and right
what you're thankful for and then you
will put them in the corresponding tin
so at the end of the day your tin will
be filled up with all these little
circles of things all of your friends
and family are thankful for you for and
it's just a great way to think about
your family and tell them how much you
appreciate them and what you're thankful
for littles not past those warm fuzzies
it's always nice to put it on paper
you can share and when you're done you
can just you know bound it together with
a little piece of ribbon you have a
little mini keepsake album to take home
and it just keeps you just remind you
that the things that you do give it
really does matter to other people and
they fit so perfectly in that tin did
you just use that as your template just
anything that actually you can just down
the go for these for free as well and
it's just a three inch circle and so a 3
inch tins or paper mache boxes are
pretty easy to find just a local craft
store local craft stores yeah great
activity one that adults can do
throughout the dinner as well and you
kept I think we just get it over a great
tip just keep the decor simple just keep
it absolutely another thing I did is
also I did a little Thanksgiving memory
book and this is you can download for
free as well and this is something that
you can pass down from from each
Thanksgiving to the next and it just has
a little basic things like who hosted it
what were the activities and family news
and you can put your photo and just pass
it down from each person that hosts
every year and how fun that will be to
look back and all the different memories
that you've created during that time one
one other thing that I wanted to just
mention really briefly is one of my
fellow bloggers gave me this idea and I
love it I'm so gonna start it this year
she said that her name is Angela Nord
and she said that they have a tablecloth
every year when they're done they sign
it and then their mother embroiders the
signatures on it so amazing and you can
look back at your cute little signature
when you were five and as husbands are
added and grandkids are added all those
signatures just add up and I love that
idea I'm so gonna start that this year
as your family grows the signatures I'm
absolutely I have to learn to embroider
but I'm gonna start that Christine you
might need to work I know you'll get it
you'll get an that as a fun fun
tradition to start yeah I just thought
that was amazing I'm trying time for one
more yeah okay one more last one okay
I'm gonna I'll let you hold this at
Burke okay I'm really hoping that my
crafting skills have improved great
because I need this a long time ago but
I love this this is called the talking
spoon and how I made it you can just get
a regular spoon but I thought I'd be
really cool this would be you know
before my skills have improved and I
just wrapped polymer clay it's like
multiple baking clay on it and then I
just took a toothpick and I wrote the
make
and then I went Indian you bake it and
then I just painted it and antiqued it
but what this is is it's kind of goes
along with the legends of the Talking
Stick uh-huh he who holds the stick is
the one that has the floor no one else
can speak this is great to do it
Thanksgiving to pass a spoon around the
table and they have the spotlight
they're the only ones that it can talk
and they can share a fun family story
and make sure that you have the video
camera or the tape recorder going so you
can capture all those fun memories to
record those and put those in history
and you can watch them yeah Thanksgiving
is to come that is a cute idea very
simple very fun great ideas you can
incorporate into your own things giving
meal to again take the focus off the
food a little bit and put it more on the
day we've mentioned several free
downloadable projects you can download
the gratitude box the children's
activities books as well as the adult
Thanksgiving memory book at Christine's
website can McKay designs calm cute
ideas Kristi thank you for eating
skipping coming up